v21_LEB: Then Peter came up to him and said, “Lord, how many times will my brother sin against me and I will forgive him? Up to seven times?”
v21_KJV: Then Peter came to Him and said, “Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Up to seven times?”

v22_LEB: Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven!
v22_KJV: Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you, up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven.

v23_LEB: “For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man—a king—who wanted to settle accounts with his slaves.
v23_KJV: Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.

v24_LEB: And when he began to settle them, someone was brought to him who owed ten thousand talents.
v24_KJV: And when he had begun to settle accounts, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.

v25_LEB: And because he did not have enough to repay it, the master ordered him to be sold, and his wife and his children and everything that he had, and to be repaid.
v25_KJV: But as he was not able to pay, his master commanded that he be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and that payment be made.

v26_LEB: Then the slave threw himself to the ground and began to do obeisance to him, saying, ‘Be patient with me, and I will pay back everything to you!’
v26_KJV: The servant therefore fell down before him, saying, ‘Master, have patience with me, and I will pay you all.’

v27_LEB: So the master of that slave, because he had compassion, released him and forgave him the loan.
v27_KJV: Then the master of that servant was moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt.

v28_LEB: But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denarii, and taking hold of him, he began to choke him, saying, ‘Pay back everything that you owe!’
v28_KJV: “But that servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii; and he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, ‘Pay me what you owe!’

v29_LEB: Then his fellow slave threw himself to the ground and began to implore him, saying, ‘Be patient with me and I will repay you!’
v29_KJV: So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you all.’

v30_LEB: But he did not want to, but rather he went and threw him into prison until he would repay what was owed.
v30_KJV: And he would not, but went and threw him into prison till he should pay the debt.

v31_LEB: So when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were extremely distressed, and went and reported to their master everything that had happened.
v31_KJV: So when his fellow servants saw what had been done, they were very grieved, and came and told their master all that had been done.

v32_LEB: Then his master summoned him and said to him, ‘Wicked slave! I forgave you all that debt because you implored me!
v32_KJV: Then his master, after he had called him, said to him, ‘You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you begged me.

v33_LEB: Should you not also have shown mercy to your fellow slave as I also showed mercy to you?’
v33_KJV: Should you not also have had compassion on your fellow servant, just as I had pity on you?’

v34_LEB: And because he was angry, his master handed him over to the merciless jailers until he would repay everything that was owed.
v34_KJV: And his master was angry, and delivered him to the torturers until he should pay all that was due to him.

v35_LEB: So also my heavenly Father will do to you, unless each of you forgives his brother from your hearts!”
v35_KJV: “So My heavenly Father also will do to you if each of you, from his heart, does not forgive his brother his trespasses.”
