v18_LEB: Now the birth of Jesus Christ occurred in this way. His mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be pregnant by the Holy Spirit.
v18_TTT: This is how Jesus Christ was born: Before Mary and Joseph came together, she was found to be pregnant by the Holy Spirit.

v19_LEB: So Joseph her husband, being righteous and not wanting to disgrace her, intended to divorce her secretly.
v19_TTT: Joseph, being a righteous man and unwilling to disgrace her, resolved to send her away quietly.

v20_LEB: But as he was considering these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for what has been conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
v20_TTT: As he pondered this, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife; the child conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.”

v21_LEB: And she will give birth to a son, and you will call his name ‘Jesus,’ because he will save his people from their sins.”
v21_TTT: She will bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.

v22_LEB: Now all this happened in order that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet would be fulfilled, saying,
v22_TTT: All this happened to fulfill what the Lord said through the prophet:

v23_LEB: “Behold, the virgin will become pregnant and will give birth to a son,
and they will call his name Emmanuel,”
which is translated, “God with us.”
v23_TTT: “Behold, the virgin will conceive and bear a son, and they will call him Immanuel” (meaning “God with us”).

v24_LEB: And Joseph, when he woke up from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and he took his wife
v24_TTT: When Joseph woke, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded and took Mary as his wife.

v25_LEB: and did not have sexual relations with her until she gave birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus.
v25_TTT: But he did not touch her until she gave birth to a Son, and he named him Jesus.
