v21_LEB: Then Peter came up to him and said, “Lord, how many times will my brother sin against me and I will forgive him? Up to seven times?”
v21_TTT: Then Peter came to him and asked, “Lord, how many times should I forgive a dear one if they sin against me? Up to seven times?”

v22_LEB: Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven!
v22_TTT: Jesus said to him, “I do not say up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven.”

v23_LEB: “For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man—a king—who wanted to settle accounts with his slaves.
v23_TTT: Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is like a king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.

v24_LEB: And when he began to settle them, someone was brought to him who owed ten thousand talents.
v24_TTT: As he began to settle, a servant who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him.

v25_LEB: And because he did not have enough to repay it, the master ordered him to be sold, and his wife and his children and everything that he had, and to be repaid.
v25_TTT: Since he could not pay, his master ordered that he, his wife, his children, and all he had be sold to repay the debt.

v26_LEB: Then the slave threw himself to the ground and began to do obeisance to him, saying, ‘Be patient with me, and I will pay back everything to you!’
v26_TTT: The servant fell down before him and said, ‘Master, have patience with me, and I will repay you everything.’

v27_LEB: So the master of that slave, because he had compassion, released him and forgave him the loan.
v27_TTT: The master of that servant took pity on him, released him, and forgave the debt.

v28_LEB: But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denarii, and taking hold of him, he began to choke him, saying, ‘Pay back everything that you owe!’
v28_TTT: But that servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. He seized him and began to choke him, saying, ‘Pay me what you owe!’

v29_LEB: Then his fellow slave threw himself to the ground and began to implore him, saying, ‘Be patient with me and I will repay you!’
v29_TTT: His fellow servant fell at his feet and begged him, ‘Have patience with me, and I will repay you.’

v30_LEB: But he did not want to, but rather he went and threw him into prison until he would repay what was owed.
v30_TTT: But he refused and threw him into prison until he could pay back what he owed.

v31_LEB: So when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were extremely distressed, and went and reported to their master everything that had happened.
v31_TTT: When his fellow servants saw what happened, they were deeply grieved and went to their master and reported all that had happened.

v32_LEB: Then his master summoned him and said to him, ‘Wicked slave! I forgave you all that debt because you implored me!
v32_TTT: Then his master called him and said, ‘You wicked servant! I forgave all that debt because you begged me.’

v33_LEB: Should you not also have shown mercy to your fellow slave as I also showed mercy to you?’
v33_TTT: Should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant, just as I had mercy on you?

v34_LEB: And because he was angry, his master handed him over to the merciless jailers until he would repay everything that was owed.
v34_TTT: In his anger, his master handed him over to be tortured until he paid all he owed.

v35_LEB: So also my heavenly Father will do to you, unless each of you forgives his brother from your hearts!”
v35_TTT: So also my Father in heaven will do to you if each of you does not forgive your brothers and sisters from the heart.
